---
layout: post
title: "Blog 2"
date: 2020-09-17 014:48:27 -0700
categories: Senior Design
---

<html>

<style>

.site-title, .site-title:visited {
    color: #ffffff;
}

.site-nav .page-link {
    color: #fff;
    line-height: 1.5;
}

html, body, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p {
color:white;

}

h1 {
font-family:impact;
}


body {
background-image: url("https://www.musictruth.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Screen-Shot-2018-04-28-at-7.46.41-PM.jpg");
background-size: cover;
}

</style>

  
<body style="background-color:black;">
<p style="font-family:verdana;color:white">

<p>This week of school was stress free and one of the easiest weeks in terms of work load and class attendance. My senior design class now opted to switch the Tuesday class into a pre-recorded session, giving me more freedom to learn rather than getting on at 11:00 AM. As for my Comp484 class, the Thursday lecture was cancelled. This week was more of a laid back, do nothing and let all your work pile up type of week. This is both a gift and a curse for me because I get to focus on other things outside of school this week but the problem is that procrastination is going to hit me like a truck and make me really busy next week especially at night. My advice for anyone reading this is to try to get all your work done ahead of time so that you can plan ahead accordingly. Do not be like me and wait last minute to do everything because you never know what unseen circumstances will occur. With that being said, here is what I learned this week!</p>

 
<p>This week in Comp484, CSS&lang;Cascading Style Sheet&rang; was introduced and is what I am currently learning about. CSS is a style sheet language that lets the user manage and modify the presentation of an HTML document. With the use of CSS, the designer can change the color of the text, the color of the background, font sizes, and many more. Without CSS, a web page will just be a block of black text on a white background similar to what notepad looks like. Look at the background for this page as an example. The space-oriented black and blue background on this page was embedded through the usage of CSS. I did this by using the following command: <code style="background-color: grey">background-image: url&lang;link of the image address&rang;</code>. It is important to note that everything is done in between the opening and closing <code style="background-color: grey">&lt;style&gt;</code> tags. In doing so, any CSS command will be implemented onto your web page but only on the current page. In order to have CSS affect every page on your web site, you would have to create a .css file and then link the .css file to your all the web pages you want to be linked. This can be done by using the command: <code style="background-color: grey">&lt;link href="nameofcssfile.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"</code>. With that command in your headers, whatever is in your .css file will be implemented on your pages.</p>
 

<p>Another cool thing about CSS is that you can change the color of the text and the font of the text. Inline CSS text color can be changed by using the command <code style="background-color: grey">&lt;p style="color:yourcolor"&gt;</code> and the font can be changed by using the command: <code style="background-color: grey">&lt;p style="font-family: yourfont"&gt;</code>. This is an example of <a style="color:red"> the text in a different color</a> and this is an example of <a style="font-family: Comic Sans MS">the text in a different font</a>. It is important to mention that almost all these codes are done with inline CSS. I prefer using inline CSS more than linking a .css file because it allows for me identify errors and make any needed adjustments. The only advantage that a .css file has for me is that it will affect every page, making everything consistent. For a website like this where it is one page, inline CSS reigns superior as I can control everything easier. 
</p>


<p>That's really it for this week. As I mentioned earlier in the blog, this was a chill week with minimal learning. The professor assigned the first project where I have to create my own website with atleast 4 different pages and a .CSS file. I have a slight idea of what I am going to do and how I am going to execute it but the only problem is whether I will procrastinate and do it next week or be a studious college student and work on it as soon as possible. That is it for this week. Come back next week to get a sneak peek on my upcoming website for my project.</p>
    
</p>
</body>
</html>


